Title 1:
GenAI for Digital Data Flow – Harnessing LLMs for Study Start-Up and Build Activities
Abstract 1:
This workshop will highlight the critical need for clinical data professionals to stay current with Gen AI technologies. Participants will explore real-world use cases such as automated data cleaning, anomaly detection, and predictive analytics.
Description 1: Generative AI (Gen AI) is revolutionizing Clinical Data Sciences by automating complex data management tasks, enhancing data quality, and providing deeper insights into clinical trials. This workshop will highlight the critical need for clinical data professionals to stay current with Gen AI technologies. Participants will explore real-world use cases such as Protocol Digitization, Study Build and Specification Automation, as well as Test Data Generation for Study Start-Up. Through demo-led sessions, attendees will gain practical experience applying Gen AI to a clinical study, equipping them with the skills to integrate these innovations into their daily workflows and evolve as Clinical Data Scientists.

Title 2:
Think Like a Startup | Reinventing Data Management in a Generative AI and Digital Dataflow Future
Abstract 2:
Through this workshop, participants will receive an overview of the technologies (Generative AI, Protocol Digitalization, Digital Dataflow, Direct Data Capture) helping to reinvent development.
Description 2:
With the emergence of Generative AI, Clinical Protocol Digitalization, and Digital Dataflow, pharmaceutical development is undergoing a digital reinvention. With this, many traditional functions and roles are being redefined as organizations look to reduce clinical trial cycle times and optimize operations. Though Data Management is a function that is undergoing reinvention because of technological and organizational advancements, the strengths, deep industry acumen, and skillsets of data managers will be in greater demand. However, to weather the disruption, Data Management needs to think like a start-up: pivot fast, find white spaces that need support, and identify new product-market fits.

Through this workshop, participants will receive an overview of the technologies (Generative AI, Protocol Digitalization, Digital Dataflow, Direct Data Capture) helping to reinvent development. Then, through interactive activities, the participants will think like start-up founders to identify new services/offerings to pursue for data management organizations to pursue. Finally, participants will discuss how the data management can pivot in their organizations to help in the next generation of pharmaceutical development.



Gen AI Panel Discussion [30 - min]  (moderated by Akash-Accenture?)
* Brooks Fowler -Abbvie
* Kailash Swarna -Accenture
* Prasanna Rao -Saama

Demo led session for Gen AI use cases [Pfizer & Saama] [90 to 105 mins]
* Conrad Kurowski -Pfizer
* Mahesh Narasimhan -Saama
* Prasanna Rao -Saama

    Use Cases to be Demoed (Tentative, Time Permitting): (20 minutes each)

        Digitized Protocol SOA via OpenStudyBuilder (Mahesh)

        EDC Build Automation - Predict required CRFs, build a database build spec. (Conrad)

            Visit Extraction (studyDesignEncounter) / Activity Extraction in USDM format (studyDesignActivities)
            Map Activities to Forms from CDISC Library API (metadata repository)
            Build the final study timeline (mainTimeline)

        Generate iDRP / Data Management Plan (Mahesh)

        Synthetic Edit Check Test Dataset Generation (Conrad)

            Extract the forms/fields from a sample edit check description/logic
                Build a draft dataset with these
            Retrieve the additional metadata from the EDC regarding all the form and items extracted
                Extend the draft dataset
            Build the SQL query to test the check
                Finalize the testing dataset


[15 min break]

Accenture led second half of the session (remaining 90+ mins)
Group discussion on profound impact of GenAI on the data, data management, and the role of the data manager in driving twin outcomes: benefit for patients, and greater productivity for Biopharma through technology. Audience will be divided into groups (depending on # of attendees)  with some provocative questions, to brainstorm and present the opportunities with GenAI


Title: Reinventing Clinical Data Management in a Generative AI and Digital Dataflow Future: Harnessing LLMs for Study Start-Up and Build Activities

Abstract:
This workshop will highlight the critical need for clinical data professionals to stay current with GenAI technologies. 
Through panel discussions with industry thought leaders, participants will receive an overview of the technologies (Generative AI, Protocol Digitization, Digital Dataflow, Direct Data Capture) helping reinvent Clinical development.

Through demo-driven sessions, attendees will gain practical experience in applying GenAI to clinical data management activities, exploring real-world use cases in study start-up and build such as:
    Protocol Digitization
    Study Build and Specification Automation
    Synthetic Test Dataset Generation 

Finally, through group activities and interactive discussions, participants will not only collaborate to identify current opportunities with GenAI, but also future opportunities and how to redefine / pivot organizations to usher in the next era of pharmaceutical development. Attendees will be equipped with the required skills and knowledge to evolve as Clinical Data Scientist.





